Introducing Civic Ledger
Founded in September 2016, Civic Ledger is a special purpose technology company established to serve public sector markets with a focus on revolutionising citizen-at-the-centre as a service. We see significant opportunities for government and government-related markets to innovate fulfilment relationships with its customers using blockchain technologies and other digital applications.
Civic Ledger Capability
Civic Ledger has recently developed intellectual property (IP) which it owns outright.  This IP is a solution using Blockchain technology which is able to be built upon to explore further applications of the technology into other public sector markets.
We believe that these solutions proving issuance and speeding up transactions through the application of the Blockchain technology is a strong foundation from which to explore the problem of transparency and trust in revolution of digital citizen-at-the-centre services.
What is Blockchain Technology?
Blockchain can be described as an emerging and enabling technology which has the potential to redesign society, economies and traditional governance models because of its key attributes of transparency, transferability and traceability of things of value due to its public distributed ledger features.  
How it works is that it is a tamper-proof distributed digital ledger of information, which exchanges information between all independent ledger operators.  This process is called “decentralisation”, as there is no central point of failure. Information is accessible at all times, and records are maintained and updated automatically.  
Government departments and government-related industries are heavily involved in information exchange and providing citizen services.  By linking the data between multiple player organisations with blockchains, this ensures instantaneous data transfer in near time therefore improving transparency between such entities which then creates “trust”.
Because of the changing nature of human behaviour which is resulting in an increasing number of on-line transactions (financial, information, records), Blockchain technology is likely to become increasingly important to the customer fulfilment relationship between a government and its citizens as it has the potential to enhance privacy, security and speed up transactions whilst reducing costs.
Civic Ledger Clients
Queensland Government
In October 2016, we successfully completed a cross platform, cloud based Proof of Concept (PoC) using the Blockchain technology to issue the Queensland Government’s Community Club “other” liquor licence.  The objective of the PoC was to demonstrate and test the potential of the Blockchain technology to solve the problem of intermediaries, siloed data and lag times of the transfer process relating to permits and licences.  
The solution was to be built to demonstrate how blockchain can assist in issuing and storage of licences securely and electronically and then show the “change of state” on the blockchain. The outcome of the PoC was to demonstrate the value in time and money by improving user accessibility to data at the time of the transaction, especially when there are multiple players involved in the transfer.  
City of Melbourne
In December 2016, we commenced developing a PoC using the Blockchain technology with the City of Melbourne (CoM) this time looking at the issuance of Parking Vouchers.  The CoM expends significant amount of resources, time and money issuing, regulating and enforcing compliance of its residents in relation to visitor parking.  
At present it is a paper based economy and the CoM is interested to learn how the application of the Blockchain technology can solve the problem of the “double spend” be adopting an efficient digital end to end process that will allow a peer to peer market place to emerge for customers.  
The PoC will be delivered at the end of January 2017.
Civic Ledger People
Grantly Mailes | CO-FOUNDER & CEO 
Grantly is a serial entrepreneur and early stage investor focusing on FinTech, cryptography and the internet of things. He is the founding partner of Gecko Ventures, a private equity fund investing in FinTech start-ups.  Grantly recently joined Sapien Ventures, a FinTech and online marketplace-focused venture capital firm with presence across Silicon Valley, Sydney, Melbourne and Shanghai. In addition to his investor roles, Grantly is an Associate Director of the Boston Consulting Group and the CEO of Gecko Digital.  Grantly’s interest in the civic application of blockchain stems from two terms as the chief technologist in the Victorian and South Australian governments.
Lucas Cullen | CO-FOUNDER & CTO 
Lucas is a software engineer with extensive experience in the banking industry and regularly contracts to government agencies, Lucas is local to Brisbane and has been developing and building bitcoin and blockchain related services for the past three years both for private businesses and for open source communities.  Lucas is a sitting board member of the Bitcoin Association of Australia and is sought out often by government and industry for bitcoin and blockchain technology advice and for public speaking engagements.
Katrina Donaghy | CO-FOUNDER & BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT & CIVIC PARTNERSHIPS
Katrina is a sociologist who has spent many years in the public and NFP sectors working in a variety of roles. Her area of expertise is in the business of “fusion” which sees Katrina taking on a generalist approach to technology, working across disciplines and interest groups.  An expert collaborator and communicator, Katrina’s curiosity with blockchain technology and decentralised applications is what has led to the collaboration with Lucas and Grantly to form Civic Ledger. Katrina remains driven by her passion for the Future and her ability to put the human at the centre as the unifying vehicle to deliver the best experience is her key motivation.
